# Building an Application JAR

Assuming this alias in your user or project `deps.edn` file:

```clojure
  ;; build an uberjar (application) with AOT compilation by default:
  :uberjar {:replace-deps {com.github.seancorfield/depstar {:mvn/version "2.1.267"}}
            :exec-fn hf.depstar/uberjar
            :exec-args {:aot true}}
```

Building an application JAR file can be as simple as:

```bash
clojure -X:uberjar :jar MyProject.jar :main-class project.core
```

where `project.core` is your main namespace -- with `(:gen-class)` in the `ns` form and a `-main` function. The `:exec-args` already specify `:aot true` so the namespace specified by `:main-class` will be compiled, along with any Clojure code that it depends on (compilation is transitive).

An uberjar created by that command can be run as follows:

```bash
java -jar MyProject.jar
```

When building an application "uber" JAR file, `depstar` will use the project's `deps.edn` file (in the current directory) to calculate the "basis" for the project, and then build the JAR file from all of the files and JAR files that would be on the classpath by default for the project. In a simple project, that is likely to be whatever is in `:paths`, which is typically the `src` folder, and optionally the `resources` folder, as well as all the JAR files that represent the full set of dependencies from `:deps` (including any transitive dependencies).

Sometimes you might want to include additional files or dependencies that are not on the default classpath of a project, but are added through one or more aliases that have their own `:extra-paths` and/or `:extra-deps`. If you want `depstar` to take those aliases into account, you can specify the `:aliases` option (which takes a vector of keywords). For example, if your `deps.edn` file has:

```clojure
  :assets {:extra-paths ["web/assets"]}
```

then you can ask `depstar` to include them like this:

```bash
clojure -X:uberjar :jar MyProject.jar :aliases '[:assets]'
```

An application JAR will also include a manifest, generated by `depstar`, which includes information about who built the JAR (`Built-By:` with your username, if available) and how: `Created-By: depstar` and `Build-Jdk:` (a trimmed version of the `java.version` system property). You can specify additional entries for the manifest using the `:manifest` option, which expects a hash map argument. Keywords are capitalized around `-`. Values are converted to strings. `:the-answer 42` will become `The-Answer: 42` in the manifest.

> Note: if a `pom.xml` file exists (or is created by `depstar`, using the `:sync-pom true` option), it will be included in the JAR file, along with a `pom.properties` file, unless you specify `:no-pom true`. A `pom.xml` file is not required for an application JAR, however.

If you choose to build an application JAR file without AOT compilation or without specifying a main namespace, you can still run the JAR file but you need a longer command:

```bash
clojure -X:uberjar :aot false :jar MyProject.jar

java -cp MyProject.jar clojure.main -m project.core
```

This takes advantage of the fact that `clojure.main` is already AOT compiled and has a `-main` function (and Clojure will be included in your application JAR file because it is a dependency of your project), and that `-main` function understands the `-m` command-line option to specify a namespace to be required and then a `-main` function within that namespace to be executed.

The simplest AOT compilation for an application JAR just starts at the `:main-class` namespace but you can tell `depstar` to compile multiple namespaces, or even all namespaces it finds in your project, using the `:compile-ns` option. For more details, see [AOT Compilation](aot.md).

Additional options that can affect application JAR building:
* `:exclude` -- a vector of strings used as regex patterns to exclude specific files from the JAR,
* `:repro false` -- consider the user `deps.edn` file when calculating the "basis" (in case you want to use aliases from that, as well as from the project `deps.edn` file),
* `:verbose true` -- print out the names of all the files being added to the JAR as well as the contents of the generated manifest, and the generated `pom.properties` if a `pom.xml` file is used.
