# Building a Library JAR

Assuming this alias in your user or project `deps.edn` file:

```clojure
  ;; build a jar (library):
  :jar {:replace-deps {com.github.seancorfield/depstar {:mvn/version "2.1.267"}}
        :exec-fn hf.depstar/jar
        :exec-args {}}
```

Building a library JAR file can be as simple as:

```bash
clojure -X:jar :jar MyLib.jar
```

This will use the project's `deps.edn` file (in the current directory) to calculate the "basis" for the project, and then build a "thin" library JAR file from all of the directories and non-`.jar` files that would be on the classpath by default for the project. In a simple project, that is likely to be just whatever is in `:paths`, which is typically the `src` folder, and optionally the `resources` folder.

For a project with `:local/root` or `:git/url` dependencies, the classpath will include those directories as well, and `depstar` will also include those (source) files in the JAR as well. If you plan to publish this library JAR files and those sources are not already available as dependencies for your users, this can be convenient since your library will include them directly. This is not always what you want, so you can specify `:paths-only true` to use only the directories in the `:paths` entry in `deps.edn` instead, or you can use the `:exclude` option to provide a list of strings to use as regex patterns to exclude certain files from being copied into the JAR file.

Sometimes you might want to include additional files that are not on the default classpath of a project, but are added through one or more aliases that have their own `:extra-paths` (or `:extra-deps`). If you want `depstar` to take those aliases into account, you can specify the `:aliases` option (which takes a vector of keywords). For example, if your `deps.edn` file has:

```clojure
  :assets {:extra-paths ["web/assets"]}
```

then you can ask `depstar` to include them like this:

```bash
clojure -X:jar :jar MyLib.jar :aliases '[:assets]'
```

If you specify `:paths-only true`, any such `:extra-paths` from aliases _will_ be included in the JAR but local/git dependencies from `:extra-deps` will not.

A library JAR will also include a manifest, generated by `depstar`, which includes information about who built the JAR (`Built-By:` with your username, if available) and how: `Created-By: depstar` and `Build-Jdk:` (a trimmed version of the `java.version` system property). You can specify additional entries for the manifest using the `:manifest` option, which expects a hash map argument. Keywords are capitalized around `-`. Values are converted to strings. `:the-answer 42` will become `The-Answer: 42` in the manifest.

If you plan to publish your library to Clojars or similar, you will need a `pom.xml` file. If you created your project with [clj-new](https://github.com/seancorfield/clj-new), then you will have a fully-detailed `pom.xml` file. Otherwise, you can either create one manually (ugh! XML!) or you can ask `depstar` to generate a minimal one for you:

```bash
clojure -X:jar :jar MyLib.jar :sync-pom true :version '"1.2.3"' :group-id io.github.myname :artifact-id my-cool-lib
```

When creating a new `pom.xml` file, all three of `:version`, `:group-id`, and `:artifact-id` are required.
Once you have a `pom.xml` file, you can have `depstar` update any or all of those fields by specifying just the options you want to change. See [`pom.xml`](pom-xml.md) for more detail about creating and synchronizing this file.

> Note: if a `pom.xml` file exists (or is created), it will be included in the JAR file, along with a `pom.properties` file, unless you specify `:no-pom true`.

Additional options that can affect library JAR building:
* `:exclude` -- a vector of strings used as regex patterns to exclude specific files from the JAR,
* `:repro false` -- consider the user `deps.edn` file when calculating the "basis" (in case you want to use aliases from that, as well as from the project `deps.edn` file),
* `:verbose true` -- print out the names of all the files being added to the JAR as well as the contents of the generated manifest, and the generated `pom.properties` if a `pom.xml` file is used.

Finally, although it is generally discouraged, it is possible to AOT compile some or all of your code prior to adding it to the library. See [AOT Compilation](aot.md) for more details. There are many caveats to this, including potential compatibility issues with different versions of Clojure, and the fact that AOT compilation is, unfortunately, transitive, so compiling your code ends up compiling everything that your code references so you generally need a liberal set of `:exclude` regex patterns to ensure that you do not get a lot of unwanted `.class` files in your supposedly "thin" library JAR!
